非常感谢芝作室予gooood分享以下内容。更多关于他们：LUKSTUDIO on goooodAppreciations towardsLUKSTUDIOfor providing the following description:尼康成立于1917年，一百多年来一直致力于专业影像设备的研发。其相机产品帮助人类将视野拓展到全球各个角落乃至太空。然而进入21世纪后，相机行业因为数字化革命和便携式相机的崛起而迎来一波新的浪潮。2020年，品牌以“支持创造”为新理念，面向中国市场的年轻用户推出一系列革命性产品，并委托芝作室为其打造首家中国直营店。Founded in 1917, Nikon has been a trademark associated with professional imaging equipment for over a century. Its cameras have enabled humanity to reach all corners of the world, even in space. Yet, since the mid-2000s, the shift from film to digital photos, and the trend of more portable cameras have dramatically changed the industry. In 2020, with the new concept “Empower to Create”, the brand introduced its revolutionized products to the young users of the Chinese market, and engaged LUKSTUDIO to create its store identity.▼门店外观，Storefront©Wen Studio店铺位于淮海路一座石库门建筑的转角，面向年轻人聚集的潮流街区。传统相机店通常被设计为画廊或实验室，容易让顾客望而却步。芝作室本次则要打造出一个相对友好而迷人的环境，吸引顾客前来重拾探索欲。The store is located at the corner of a Shikumen building on Huaihai Road, a trendy neighborhood where young people gather. Conventional camera shops are designed often either as a cultural gallery or a technological laboratory, both could be intimidating to the common shoppers. LUKSTUDIO aims to create an inviting environment where one could dream about the next outdoor adventure.▼以堆叠鹅卵石为背景的不锈钢展架，是室内探险体验的预览©Wen Studiothe stainless steel display with pebbles background offers a preview of the experience inside店铺为三层扇形空间，整体零售体验据此量身定制，从下至上分别展现尼康的品牌、产品及社群。三个楼层皆用夯土漆墙面来模拟层层易色的丹霞地貌，营造统一的自然氛围。每个楼层又因为空间属性不同，设计有特征各异的场景。▼场地原貌，The original site© LUKSTUDIOThe overall retail experience has been tailored to introduce the brand, the products and the community on three separate levels, each a quadrant in plan. Given the different spatial requirements, three different scenes have been created, each with its own design attributes. The common connection is the rammed earth background mimicking Danxia landform, a natural landscape that changes colours on different levels.▼轴测图，Axonometric diagram© LUKSTUDIO光圈——旋转对焦的场景体验Aperture – Rotation to focus一层为品牌展示区，夯土漆背景与不锈钢展具的搭配灵感源自在野外拍摄的体验，精致的器材与粗犷的景观在同一时空相遇。The first floor is designed as a brand gallery. The combination of rammed earth backdrop and stainless-steel display parts takes inspiration from the experience of shooting in the wild, where exquisite equipment juxtaposes rustic landscape.▼一层布局的灵感来自相机的光圈和旋转环，the ground floor layout is inspired by aperture and rotating spinner rings of a camera©Wen Studio▼精致的“器材”与粗犷的“景观”形成鲜明对比，sophisticated display props in contrast to a rustic backdrop©Wen Studio▼弧形轨道上安装有可移动的展台，movable stands are installed on the curved track©Wen Studio穿孔不锈钢天花层层递进，仿佛由光圈与旋转环组合而成。旋转环之间有通电轨道，让不锈钢展台可以随之自由移动，并为展台供电。展台搭配上环绕四周的网格展架，构成了一套灵活多样的展示系统。The perforated stainless-steel ceiling progresses like an aperture with many optic rings. Power tracks are integrated between rings so that the stainless-steel display booths, where a touch-screen tablet accompanies each camera on display, can rotate freely. Together with the surrounding display grid, a flexible and diverse gallery system is in place.▼模块化展架沿着弧形的临街橱窗放置©Wen Studioa modular display system staggering along the curved street window▼阳光激活了自然氛围，sunlight activates the natural atmosphere©Wen Studio▼独轮展台是由各种不锈钢部件组成的精密仪器，每个部件都有特定的功能©Wen Studiothe uni-wheel booth is a precise instrument composed of various stainless steel parts, each with a specific function▼精致材料与艺术化造型构成雕塑般的家具，在未来感与自然感中寻求平衡sculptural furniture pieces in natural landscape bring a sense of harmony©Wen Studio镜头——转换角度，无限可能Lenses – Changing angles, Infinite possibilities二楼是零售及试用区，展架上陈列着琳琅满目的产品，吸引顾客们端起相机进行试拍。镜面不锈钢条打造的天花格外引人注目，在赋予空间未来感的同时延伸视觉。展厅中央矗立着四个圆形展台，表面的槽纹设计灵感源自相机变焦环。The second floor is the touch and try area where most products are on display, visitors are encouraged to pick up a camera and try shooting with it. The dramatic ceiling is filled with mirrored stainless steel strips, extending the space upwards while adding a futurist touch. At the center of the showroom stand 4 circular booths whose reeded texture are inspired by camera lens.▼二楼展区用暖色调及有机纹理平衡未来主义风格的家具©Wen Studioa display area balancing futuristic features with warm tone and textures▼浅色空间背景更能衬托出黑色的产品©Wen Studioa light environment letting metallic and black-coloured merchandises stand out▼展台配有小的升降装置，可用于夜景试拍©Wen Studioone booth comes with a small elevated chamber for night shooting tests墙面展区用木框架打造，再针对不同展示内容设计相应的道具。产品陈列区由错位的矩形框架组成，并用灯带加以突显。原创周边产品区则用穿孔板与拉丝不锈钢卡件构成，可以变换出不同的组合。Product categories differentiated through modular display system and outlined by light in wooden frame. Staggered display for camera products, while a peg board system enables flexible arrangement for seasonal products, demonstrating the infinite possibilities of creativity. The display board is fixed by removable cross brushed stainless steel parts.▼产品展架的和纹不锈钢背景反射出朦胧光影，增加空间互动性并与夯土漆墙面形成鲜明对比reflective stainless steel contrasting rough rammed earth©Wen Studio▼展架配有可更换的价签和信息板，以及便于店员介绍产品的可抽拉临时桌面© LUKSTUDIOproduct tag, pull-out information panel & table drawer facilitate camera product introduction▼左：原创周边产品展示区；右：卡件造型源自相机十字对焦点©Wen StudioLeft: original goods area; Right: cross-type focus point inspired peg board▼展示墙可以拼出无限组合，the peg board system and its limitless combinations© LUKSTUDIO星空之下——探险家的乐园Under the Stars – A Field for the Explorer顶层是供用户聚会和学习的活动区。空间顶部原有纵横交错的房梁和管道，让人感觉很压抑。为创造出一个更开放的空间，芝作室将杂乱的天花板刷成“夜空”，再挂上点点小灯，唤起人们露营星空下的回忆。The top floor is an event area for users to meet and learn from each other. The original space feels claustrophobic as it comes with heavy beams and pipes. To create a space that is mind-opening, LUKSTUDIO dissolves the visual obstacles in a pitch blackness and hangs numerous lights in the void, recalling the memory of camping under a starry sky.▼家具能随着空间功能的变化而灵活组合，flexible furniture design enables easy transformation©Wen Studio探险家因地制宜和物尽其用的智慧，在此体现为一系列灵活的家具。场地随着家具组合的变化，可以从课堂切换为影棚。The explorer’s wisdom of adaptation is reflected here in flexible furniture design which allows the space to transform from a classroom to a photographic studio.▼适合独处的阅读及工作区，reading and work areas suitable for solitude©Wen Studio▼室内细节，Inteiror details©Wen Studio出于对品牌制造业历史背景的呼应，芝作室用工业味十足的材料来打造连接三个沉浸式场景的楼梯间。楼梯间立面以排列整齐的垂直框架为基础，表面覆盖做旧铜色穿孔板，形成“暗室”，为顾客跨越下一楼层进行新的探索提供过渡空间。Paying tribute to the brand’s manufacturing past, the stairwell linking the three immersive sets is designed with an industrial material palette. Lined with rhythmic vertical frames and rustic perforated metal panels, the neutral “darkroom” is a buffer maximizing visitors’experience going from floor to floor.▼深色做旧铜色穿孔板墙突显工业气息，dark perforated walls accentuate the industrial feel©Wen Studio入口处墙是由629枚光学镜片组成的“上海”灯光艺术装置，标志着这里是尼康开设一系列中国直营店的起点。At the stair entrance, a wall feature is composed of 629 optic lenses where Chinese characters of Shanghai is written in light, marking this first of many experimental stores in China.▼“上海”灯光艺术装置采用与尼克尔镜头相同的光学镜片制作而成，the “Shanghai” lighting art installation is made with Nikkor optic lenses©Wen Studio▼金属栏杆搭配实木扶手，让人感觉更柔和，the metal balustrade finished with solid wood handrail for a softer human touch©Wen Studio▼夜景，night view©Wen Studio▼一层平面图，1F plan© LUKSTUDIO▼二层平面图，2F plan© LUKSTUDIO▼三层平面图，3F plan© LUKSTUDIO项目地址 | 上海市黄浦区淮海中路372号室内面积 | 270平方米室内设计 | LUKSTUDIO芝作室设计总监 | 陆颖芝设计团队 | 吴冬、汪天使、吴敏仪、李墨设计内容 | 室内、展示道具、家具、照明及标识设计主要材料 | 金属网、木皮板、白色乳胶漆、夯土漆设计时间 | 2020.10-2020.12施工时间 | 2021.07-2021.10施工单位 | 上海锦伟建筑装饰工程有限公司道具、家具、标识 | 江苏湛森道具有限公司摄影 | Wen StudioLocation | No. 372 Huaihai Middle Road, Huangpu District, ShanghaiNet Area | 270㎡Interior Design | LUKSTUDIODirector | Christina LukDesign Team | Dong Wu, Angel Wang, Munyee Ng, Edoardo NieriScope | interior, millwork, furniture, lighting and signage designKey Materials | metal mesh, wood veneer panel, white latex paint, rammed earth paintDesign Period | 2020.10-2020.12Construction Period | 2021.07-2021.10General Contractor | Shanghai Jinwei Building Decoration Engineering Co., Ltd.Display Furniture, Loose Furniture, VI | Jiangsu Zhansen fixture&furniture Co., Ltd.Photography | Wen StudioMore:芝作室。更多关于他们：LUKSTUDIO on gooood